# BSc-Final-Year-Research
## Can Twitter Data Add Value to Historical Data?: A Comparative Study for T20I Cricket Match Outcome  Prediction Using Machine Learning

Due to the dynamic nature of the game and the numerous variables that might affect the outcome, predicting the result of a cricket match before it begins can be a very difficult task. Each match leaves thousands of data points, but real-time information cannot be produced utilizing that data. Social media platforms like Twitter have proven their capacity to produce real-time information in many fields. 

This study proposes a machine learning-based method for predicting the result of the match before it starts by considering historical data and Twitter data. From 2011-01-01 to 2022-10-14, historical data such as batting and bowling statistics, and Tweets related to matches were scraped, and useful features were derived from those data. The historical match data were obtained from ESPN Statsguru (https://stats.espncricinfo.com/ci/engine/stats/index.html) using the Pandas package [ read_html() function] because Statsguru provides data in tabular format. The Snscrape library was used to scrape the tweets. Sentiment score is one of the variables that needed to be created from tweets. For that, identifying tweets' sentiments was needed, and to achieve that, sentiment analysis was carried out as a part of this study. The fine-tuned RoBERTa-based model outperformed with a 95.3% F1 score the models created using LSTM and VADER. That fine-tuned RoBERTa model can be accessed by: https://huggingface.co/sppm/cric-tweets-sentiment-analysis. 

Using those created variables, three datasets were formulated: one with only historical data, another with only Twitter data, and a third with both types of data. Using Streamlit, a web application was developed to automate the process of obtaining the values for the variables in the Twitter dataset. Additionally, regular expression patterns were also used when creating the Twitter variables. Then several machine-learning algorithms (i.e., Logistic Regression, SVM, Naive Bayes, KNN, Random Forest, and XGBoost) were trained and evaluated on these datasets. A voting classifier was modeled to determine whether or not the results could be improved. The best models were produced by the XGBoost classifier for all three datasets, and it was noticed that removing correlated and least important variables improved the models’ performances. To identify highly correlated variables, factor analysis was taken into account, and variables' importance plots were considered to identify the important variables.

The final results suggested that features derived from Twitter can be quite useful for making predictions. The models generated using only Twitter data performed better than those built using historical data, and the models created using both historical and Twitter data exceeded the performances of both individual data models. The XGBoost model that was built using both historical and Twitter data was the best model (73.7% F1 score), and the fans’ sentiment score variables for the two teams were the most important variables in that model. This best model performed better than the bookmakers’ predictions [gathered from oddsportal.com (https://www.oddsportal.com/)] with a profit for the T20I World Cup 2022 data by accurately predicting 11 matches out of 14, while the bookmakers predicted only 9 matches correctly.  
